Okay, so let's proceed
further with our project.
So now we have to set
up this post route thing.
So post route, you have to.
Okay, so now this is something
that I have to teach you that is
really, really, really cool.
Now see guys, what happens is when
you make a post request, right?
So let's go back.
When you do a post request,
do you remember that you
have to even send a body?
That you can send a body.
Now for this body purpose, that
is the actual data, we are
again going to use JSON only.
That means our backend, sorry, our
front end, our client is going to
send me the data as a JSON format.
Now how will I know
that this is JSON?
So the client has to set some
headers that hey, I'm sending
a JSON data on the backend.
We will read this JSON data and we
will do the operation that means
to create something and we will
send an acknowledgement, okay,
that your post has been created.
So now what I will do is I'll just
create a post route and app post
that if you post something to
books, this is where basically you
are trying to create some data,
right?
And let's have request
you have response.
So what I want to do is as of now,
let's just return a response.
JSON saying that this is
under construction, right?
So I'll just send a message, message
that this root is under development.
Okay, so we have not finished
setting up this.
What I want to show you is
what if I do a console
log of request dot data.
Sorry, request body.
I mean, so let's understand that what
this request body will give me if
I send some data from the front end.
Okay, so npm start working.
Good.
So now if I make a post
request and in the body
let's send some data.
So let's send test
and the value as abc.
Okay.
Or ancient.
You see that what we are getting,
you see we are getting an undefined
what happened here?
Even though I am sending some
data and what you will notice
is automatically the headers
are being set to like JSON.
I'll show you that.
But can you see that we are getting
undefined why the request or body is
coming to be undefined even though
we are sending this test.
Okay, so now let me show
you something also.
So request console.log request.
Headers.
Okay, request headers.
So let's understand, let's see what
is coming from the front end.
So if I do an enter,
let's understand what happened.
I got these headers in Which I have
content type application/JSON.
So who set this this Thunder client.
So it is telling me that hey bro,
I am sending you a data which is
of type JSON but it is undefined.
Oh okay, something is bad going on.
Let's send some XML data.
Okay, so XML data.
Let's or maybe some text data.
So this is a test.
If I do a send now.
So now content type
changes to text plane.
But still the, still
the body is undefined.
So what happens is see your backend,
your Express has no idea how to
like you know, parse how to read
this different kinds of data.
It can be adjacent data,
it can be a plain data.
Because it depends
on the content type.
Correct, it depends
on the content type that what kind
of content type is coming.
And based on that this
body has to be processed.
So, so for that Express has
a concept known as middlewares.
Okay so there is a concept
known as middlewares.
So right now there is no need
to understand what are
these middlewares, but you
can understand that these are
something like plugins.
So okay, so you can even use
Sorry, let me just write plugins.
So you can even use some built
in plugins of Express.
You can install plugins from
the npm also and even you
can build your own plugins.
So there is one plugin, one
middleware that is known as
a JSON for a JSON parser.
So how to use, you have to say
app dot use okay app
dot use and the plugin name.
So application is this app.
Okay dot use what I want
to use, I want to use Express JSON.
So what is this?
This is basically a plugin.
What this plugin is now doing is
that if some data comes from the
front end and it has a header that
is application/ JSON, it will do
all the transformations for me and
give me the actual data in the
request or body.
So this plugin has been installed.
Okay, so this is coming from
the Express only built in one.
So I have basically initialized
this middleware I have put up,
I have set up one middleware.
Now let me just do an npm start.
Now if I send a text data you
can see I'm getting nothing.
Correct, I'm getting nothing
because it's a text.
Let's try to send a JSON data.
Whoa, do you see that I
started getting the data.
If I do send test anc.
Okay, so if I do something like
else as A and the value as bbb.
So what you can see that
I'm getting ANC bbb.
So how I am able to get the data
now because this plugin installed
similarly have plugins
for Express, Txt, Express, JSON.
But we don't.
We just want to have a support
for JSON incoming
calls, JSON incoming data.
So this plugin has to be installed.
Okay, so it's kind of a middleware.
So I'll show you what
is a middleware.
We will have a dedicated
videos on middleware.
Very important topic.
Now what I can do is I have the body.
So from the body I have
to extract some data.
Okay, so I'll just say request body.
So when you want to create, you have
to give me a title and an author.
So you have to give me title
and you have to give me
the author of the book.
Now, now what I will do is first
of all let's do a validation.
If no title is coming or title dot
trim or title is actually coming to
be, let's say just an empty string.
So this is a bad request, right?
So return response status 400.JSON
and I'll send an error message
saying that the title is required.
So you know, this is the validation.
Okay, good.
I'll just copy this piece
of code and I'll just repaste it.
I hope you can see
the code guys, right?
I hope it is clear.
Then I can just say
if no author or author is an empty
string in this case I'll
just say author is required.
Now if you are getting the title,
you are getting the author.
Now let's create a book.
So I can just create a book.
So book needs an id.
So ID we will generate.
How can we generate an id?
I can just say take the existing
books and calculate the length.
So, so first is like id1, then
id2, then id3, then id4,
then you can put up title and then
you can put up author.
And finally what I will
do is in my database.
So books is my database right now.
So books dot push the book.
Okay, so what this will do, this
will keep in the database and I will
just say, okay, so first of all
I have to return a JSON message.
That book created success.
Okay, so book created success.
And I can send the ID that
what is the ID of the book
that you just made?
So I'll just take the.
Let me just compute the ID here.
Okay, so ID equals books.
Length.
Just pass it like this.
And just pass the id.
And one more thing because
now you have created a resource
on the backend, it's, a.
It's kind of like DB operation.
So the status quo for
this is not 200 but 201.
So this indicates that
something has been created.
Okay.
We have to use the correct
status codes because that what
makes us a good developer.
Now if I go on the back front
end, let's try to create a book.
Send.
Oh, we got a 400 bad request.
Title is required, guys.
So title.
So book is that master node js.
Oh, author is also required.
Who is the author of this book?
None other than Piyush Kirk.
Send.
Okay, book created success.
201 created ID 2.
Let's try to get all the books sent.
Sorry, not this.
Slash books.
Right, so slash books.
Oh, sorry.
I made this book twice.
So I have to do a get request.
My bad.
So now you can see that I'm getting,
So this is my mistake.
Okay, so we are getting ID as one.
We are getting this book.
We are getting this book,
and we are getting this book.
So right now we have four books.
Right?
And this should not be
the case, right, guys?
Oh, I.
I see.
Actually, it should be plus
one because, length is fine.
Like first will, get first only.
So it should be actually
length plus one.
Okay, so let me just do
it again right now.
How many books do you have?
You have one.
You have two.
Now what I'll do is I'll just say,
let me make a post request send.
Book created.
Now get request sent.
Now you have three books.
Let's create one more book.
So master react.
Okay, cool.
Let's create one more book
for maybe next year's.
And, let's create one
more book for Docker.
Now if I try to get all the books
you have, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
You have books.
Let's.
I want to get the details
of book four.
Okay, so this is the book four.
Nice.
I want to get the details
of book five.
Okay.
I want to get the details
of book six.
Nice.
Book seven does not exist.
Right.
So you can see that how we were able
to create a post request which does
validation creation and then return.
Nice.
So this is what your post
route basically looks like.
So, now in this particular video,
you have learned one thing new, that
you have a lot of plugins and known
as middlewares in Express.
Okay, how can you use.
How can you initialize
a plugin using this app.
Use think.
Okay.
And in future, we are also going
to create our own middlewares.
Okay, now let's quickly Set
up this delete route as well.
Okay, so delete route.
Basically you will pass me an ID
and I'll delete that book.
So it's somewhat similar
to this, only.
Okay, so if you want
to delete a book, app,
dot delete, app, dot delete.
So this is the path.
So you have to give me
the book ID that you want
to delete from the database.
So request response.
So first let's gather the id.
So I'll just reuse the logic, right?
So this logic can be reused
that first of all, get the id
from the parameters, I.e.
request params.id,
parse it as a integer.
If it is not a number, then
you can throw an error.
Once you get it, let's try to, you
know, get the index of that book.
Okay, so how can I delete?
I can just say const index to delete.
Okay, so I'll just say books.find
index back where e
ID is actually equals to the ID.
Now if the index to delete
is coming less than zero,
that is a negative number.
This basically means that you
were not able to find the book.
If you are not able to find
the book, it's a 404.
It's a 404 that you are trying to
delete a book which does not exist.
404, right.
But if you find, you have to now
delete this particular index.
How can you delete that?
So you can just say books dot
and you can just say slice.
Okay, so you can just place,
start from this index.
That is the index to delete
and delete how many entries
I want to delete one entry.
Okay, delete one entry.
So this is going to delete one entry.
Okay.
Inserted new elements in their place,
returning the deleted elements.
Nice.
So this, this basically
returns a deleted element.
And finally I can just say return,
response JSON of 200
and I can just say.JSON
and the message is, book deleted.
Okay, book deleted.
So let's try this thing.
So now, right now, how
many books do I have?
See the thing is that it
was in, in the memory.
So because I refresh the server,
I am back to the initial, state.
Let's delete this docker book.
Okay, so let's first
create a book, right?
So let's create a docker book.
Let's create a, react book.
And let's also create a node js.
Book node js is already there.
Let's create a,
maybe docker is there.
What else we can get?
We can create js.
Now let's try to get all the books.
Okay, working good.
Let's try to get a book by id.
Let's try to delete this book.
I want to delete the fourth book.
Okay, we got an error scanner
set headers after they
are sent to the client.
Oh, we are missing some
return statement.
Oh, guys, my bad.
See, this should be status, not JSON.
My bad.
Okay, this should be
status, not JSON.
Let's do it again.
So first we need to
create some books.
Okay.
So create a book.
Create a Docker book.
Okay.
Create a, node js book.
Nice.
Let's get all the books.
You can see that we
have couple of books.
Let's try to get
the book number four.
And now I want to delete it.
Book deleted.
Now if I try to get this book,
I should get a 404 because book
with four doesn't exist.
You can see 1, 2, 3,
and then you have five.
The book with four deleted.
Okay, so this is how
basically you can use it.
And I, hope you like that.
How we have implemented this
and is there anything.
So these are the routes
that we have already done.
So yeah, this was a pretty
good challenge, right?
We have learned a lot of new
things in express with this.
And that's basically how
you will create your APIs.
The only difference will be instead
of this in memory DB you
will have an actual database.
It can be MongoDB, it can be.
It can be postgres, it can be MySQL,
any database that you like.